I called the Prime Minister thank you
very much Deputy Speaker I rise to
oppose the motion moved by the leader of
the opposition and in so doing I say to
the leader of the Opposition I will not
be lectured about sexism and misogyny by
this man I will not miss ogyny by this
man not now not ever
the leader of the Opposition says that
people who hold sexist views and who are
Mahajan as' are not appropriate for high
office well I hope the leader of the
Opposition has got a piece of paper and
he is writing out his resignation
because if he wants to know what
misogyny looks like in modern Australia
he doesn't need a motion in the House of
Representatives he needs a mirror that's
what he needs
let's go through the opposition leaders
repulsive double standards when it comes
to misogyny and sexism we are now
supposed to take seriously that the
leader of the Opposition is offended by
mr. slippers text messages when this is
the leader of the Opposition who has
said and this was when he was a minister
under the last government not when he
was a student not when he was in high
school when he was a minister under the
last government he has said and I quote
in a discussion about women being
underrepresented in institutions of
power in Australia the interviewer was a
man called Stavros the leader of the
Opposition says if it's true Stavros
that men have more power generally
speaking than women is that a bad thing
and then a discussion ensues and another
person being interviewed says I want my
daughter to have as much opportunity as
my son to which the leader of the
Opposition says yeah I completely agree
but what if men are by physiology or
temperament more adapted to exercise
authority or to issue command
then ensues another discussion about
women's role in modern society and the
other person participating in the
discussion says I think it's very hard
to deny that there is an
under-representation of women to which
the leader of the opposition says but
now there's an assumption that this is a
bad thing this is the man from whom
we're supposed to take lectures about
sexism and then of course it goes on I
was very offended personally when the
leader of the Opposition as Minister for
health said and I quote abortion is the
easy way out
I was very personally offended by those
comments you said that in March 2004 I
suggest you check the records I was also
very offended on behalf of the women of
Australia when in the course of this
carbon pricing campaign the leader of
the Opposition said when the housewives
of Australia need to do what the
housewives of Australia need to
understand as they do the ironing thank
you for that painting of women's roles
in modern Australia and then of course I
was offended to by the sexism by the
misogyny of the leader of the Opposition
cat calling across this table at me as I
sit here as Prime Minister if the Prime
Minister wants to politically speaking
make an honest woman of herself
something that would never have been
said to any man sitting in this chair I
was offended when the leader of the
Opposition went outside in the front of
Parliament and stood next to a sign that
said ditch the week I was offended when
the leader of the Opposition makes to a
sign that it's grown
me as a man's bitch I was offended by
those things misogyny sexism every day
from this leader of the Opposition every
day in every way across the time the
leader of the Opposition has sat in that
chair and I've sat in this chair that is
all we have heard from him and now the
leader of the Opposition wants to be
taken seriously
apparently he's woken up after this
track record and all of these statements
he's woken up and he's gone oh do you
this this thing called sexism oh my lord
this this thing called misogyny now who
is one of them oh the speaker must be
because that suits my political purpose
doesn't turn a hair about any of his
past statements doesn't walk into this
Parliament and apologize to the women of
Australia doesn't walk into this
Parliament and apologize to me for the
things that have come out of his mouth
but now seeks to use this as a battering
ram against someone else well this kind
of hypocrisy should not be tolerated
which is why this motion from the leader
of the Opposition should not be taken
seriously and then second the leader of
the Opposition is always wonderful about
walking into this Parliament and giving
me and others a lecture about what they
should take responsibility for always
wonderful about that everything that I
should take responsibility for now
apparently including the text messages
of the member for Fisher always came to
say others should assume responsibility
particularly me well can anybody remind
me if the leader of the Opposition has
taken any responsibility for the conduct
of the Sydney young liberals and the
attendance at this event of members of
his front bench has he taken any
responsibility for the conduct of
members of his political party and
members of his front bench who
apparently when the most vile things
were being said about my family race no
voice of objection
not acceptable
instead of course it was all viewed as
good fun until it was run in a Sunday
newspaper and then the leader of the
Opposition and others started ducking
for cover big on lectures of
responsibility very light on accepting
responsibility himself for the vile
conduct of members of his political
party third miss Deputy Speaker why the
leader of the Opposition should not be
taken seriously on this motion the
leader of the Opposition and the deputy
leader of the Opposition have come into
this place and have talked about the
member for Fischer well let me remind
the opposition and the leader of the
Opposition particularly about their
track record and association with the
member for Fischer I remind them that
the National Party pre-selected the
member for Fischer for the 1984 election
that the National Party pre-selected the
member for Fischer for the 1987 election
that the liberal party pre-selected mr.
Fischer for the 1993 election then for
the 96 election then for the 98 election
then for the 2001 election then for the
2004 election then for the 2007 election
and then for the 2010 election and
across many of those priests elections
mr. slipper enjoyed the personal support
of the leader of the Opposition I remind
the leader of the Opposition that on the
28th of September 2010 following the
last election campaign when mr. slipper
was elected as Deputy Speaker the leader
of the Opposition of imports the leader
of the Opposition at that stage said
this and I quote he referred to the
member for Maranoa
who was also elected to a position at
the same time and then went on as
follows and the member for Fischer will
serve as a fine compliment to the
members of Scullin in the chair I
believe that the Parliament will be well
served by the team which will occupy the
chair in this chamber I congratulate the
member for Fischer who has been
friend of mine for a very long time who
has served this Parliament in many
capacities with distinction the words of
the leader of the Opposition on record
about his personal friendship with mr.
slipper and on record about his view
about mr. slippers qualities and
attributes to be the speaker no walking
away from those words they were the
statement of the leader of the
Opposition then I remind the leader of
the Opposition who now comes in here and
speaks about mr. slipper and apparently
his inability to work with or talk to
mr. slipper I might remind the leader of
the opposition he attended mr. slippers
wedding then he walked up to mr. slipper
in the middle of the service and say he
was disgusted to be there was that the
attitude he took no he attended that
wedding as a friend the leader of the
Opposition came to lecture others about
what they ought to know or did know
about mr. slipper well with respect I'd
say to the leader of the Opposition
after a long personal association
including attending mr. slippers wedding
it would be interesting to know whether
the leader of the Opposition was
surprised by these text messages he
certainly in a position to speak more
intimately about mr. slipper than I am
and many other people in this Parliament
given this long personal association
then of course then of course the leader
of the Opposition comes into this place
and says and I quote and says and I
quote every day the Prime Minister
stands in this Parliament to defend this
speaker will be another day of shame for
this Parliament another day of shame for
a government which should already have
died of shame well can I indicate to the
leader of the opposition the government
is not dying of shame my father did not
die of shame what the leader of the
Opposition should be ashamed of
formants in this Parliament and the
sexism he brings with it
now about the text messages that are on
the public record or reported in the
that's that's a direct quote from the
leader of the opposition so I suggest
those groaning have a word with him
on the conduct of mister slipper and on
the text messages that are in the public
domain I have seen the press reports of
those text messages I am offended by
their content I am offended by their
content because I am always offended by
sexism I am offended by their content
because I'm always offended by
statements that are anti women I'm
offended by those things in the same way
that I have been offended by things that
the leader of the Opposition has said
and no doubt will continue to say in the
future because if this today was an
exhibition of his new feminine side well
I don't think we've got much to look
forward to in terms of changed conduct I
am offended by those text messages but I
also believe in terms of this Parliament
making a decision about the speakership
that this Parliament should recognize
that there is a court case in progress
that the judge has reserved his decision
that having waited for a number of
months for the legal matters surrounding
mr. slipper to come to a conclusion that
this Parliament should see that
conclusion I believe that is the
appropriate path forward and that people
will then have an opportunity to make up
their minds with the fullest information
available to them but whenever people
make up their minds about those
questions what I won't stand for what I
will never stand for is the leader of
the Opposition coming into this place
and peddling a double standard peddling
a standard for mr. slipper he would not
set for himself peddling a standard for
mr. slipper he has not said for other
members of his front bench peddling a
standard for mr. slipper that has not
been acquitted by the people who have
being sent out
to say the vilest and most revolting
things like his former shadow
parliamentary secretary secretary
senator Bernard II I will not ever see
the leader of the Opposition seek to
impose his double standard on this
Parliament sexism should always be
unacceptable we should conduct ourselves
as it should be always unacceptable the
leader of the Opposition says do
something but he could do something
himself if he wants to deal with sexism
in this Parliament he could change his
behavior he could have apologised for
all these past statements he could
apologize for standing next to science
describing me as a witch and a bitch
terminology that he's now objected to by
the front bench of the opposition
he could change a standard himself if he
sought to do so but we will see none of
that from the leader of the Opposition
because on these questions he is
incapable of change capable of double
standards but incapable of change his
double standards should not rule this
Parliament good sense common sense
proper process is what should rule this
Parliament that's what I believe is the
path forward for this Parliament not the
kind of double standards and political
game-playing imposed by the leader of
the Opposition now looking at his watch
because apparently a woman's spoken too
long I've had him yell at me to shut up
in the past but I will take the
remaining I will take the remaining
seconds of my speaking time to say to
the leader of the Opposition I think the
best course for him is to reflect on the
standards he's exhibited in public life
on the responsibility he should take for
his public statements on his close
personal connection with Peter slipper
on the hypocrisy he has displayed in
this house today and on that basis
because of the leader of the
opposition's motivations this Parliament
today should reject this motion and the
leader of the Opposition should think
seriously about the role of women in
public
life and in Australian society because
we are entitled to a better standard
than this
[Music]